---
title: Normalization (RMA GCRMA and MAS 5)
author: Tao He
date: 2019-04-28
category: Jekyll
layout: post
---

## Normalization (RMA GCRMA and MAS 5)

### Code Description: 
Group B1 decided to give the user three options for normalizing their data. The three methods are RMA, GCRMA, and MAS5. In the UI, the user will specify between either of these methods using radio buttons and select the button Begin Normalization in order for the data to begin normalizing. The user would be warned that normalization only has to be done for CEL files and RMA normalization is the only acceptable type of normalization for Gene ST Arrays and Exon ST Arrays. On the server end based on the method the user chose, the normalization would take place using the rma() if the user chooses the RMA method, gcrma() if the user chooses the GCRMA method, and mas5() if the user chooses the MAS5 method. 
Significance of Output: Normalization of the data the user imports is very important because it will make feature extraction easier. Data normalization will make the organization of the data much more structured. 

### Advanced Functions: 
The rma function was used if the user chose the rma method. The RMA function was used to take in an AffyBatch object and turn it into an expression set. The gcrma function is used if the user chooses the gcrma method. The gcrma function takes in the affybatch object and turns it into an expression set using the probe sequence. If the user chooses the mas5 method the MAS5 function would be used. The MAS5 function will normalize each array in the data independently while rma and gcrma use a multi-chip model. 
