---
title: Outliers(the users can remove the potential outliers)
author: Tao He
date: 2019-04-27
category: Jekyll
layout: post
---

## Code Description: 
A crucial part for making sure the data that is being used is reliable is that the outliers need to be identified and removed. The user can choose from three different methods for identifying the outliers; the three methods are KS, sum, and upper quartile. Based on what the user specifies, when the user presses the button Find Potential Outliers within the server the outliers() was used to find the outliers. Then the potential outliers are able to be visualized by the user using the ggplot(). Then the user is asked which outliers it wants removed from the result that they see. Depending on what outliers the user wanted removed, the outliers would be removed and the expression matrix would be updated on the server end. Then once this process is complete, the user can select the button Show Updated List of Samples and the user will be able to see the data without the outliers. 

## Significance of Output: 
The process of identifying and removing outliers is really important because it allows the data to be more reliable. It also lets the user see how the data changed after the outliers are removed. The user can be sure that extreme samples are not causing the results they see, and that results can truly be attributed to differences in gene function and expression.

## Advanced Functions: 
An important function in finding and removing functions is the outliers(). The outliers() performs outlier detection with three different methods. 
